Pretty cool stuff

# Game Idea:## Razor Statement: A game where players can fight and defend territories based on real world location using monsters and spells, and can grow stronger by fighting with other “EarthMages” and going to certain locations in the real world to conquer new territories!## Game Description:This is a 2D cell phone app that primarily uses your GPS location and a series of individual player stats including territory health points and magic points, which are all stored online. You are an EarthMage. It is up to you to become the most powerful EarthMage in your area of the world and to eventually conquer the world! You do this by fighting other EarthMages, monsters, and spells, taking territories, defending a territory or territories of the world, and leveling up. Players do not attack other players, instead they fight for other player’s territories in the real world to take control of them and level themselves up, as well as fighting random spells and monsters encountered while traveling around in the real world.## Story:This game takes place in both our universe and a secondary universe called the Deep Abyss (pending better name) that runs parallel to ours, where magic, monsters, and spells exist. Our app gives players the opportunity to become an EarthMage, an elite magic entity that can gain control of land (territory) in the real world by taking control of it in the alternate world using monsters and spells to attack and defend. EarthMages will fight other EarthMages, as well as an array of random monsters and spells that are encountered as they explore this new world, by physically traveling in the real world. Fight and defend to become the strongest EarthMage that ever was, and realize your dream of ruling two realms, the Earth and the Deep Abyss!## Target Market:Casual gamers ages 10 – 20, mostly male. Will be appealing to younger children due to the concepts of magic, battling, and exploring new places. Will be appealing to adults due to competition with friends, the novelty of the game, and the RPG upgrade system. Young adults from ages 16 and up will also be able to drive, so they can travel to more places and explore more “territories.” Children will have to travel with adults and/or via non-vehicular means. A big marketing tactic could be the concept that people will have to go out and travel to become master EarthMages, which promotes real life exploration and activity while enjoying the game.## Gameplay Mechanics:•	Territories – Portions of the real world that players take over in the game.o	I.E. – An EarthMage can claim the territory of Tivoli Apartments, Orlando, FL by physically going there in the real world and clicking “claim” if no one else is currently defending that territory. They then control it for the time being until someone else successfully takes it from them.o	Controlling a territory boosts an EarthMage’s reputation, as well as increasing the total amount of MP they have access to and the speed at which it regenerates. Also, the longer you own a territory, the more experience points it gives you towards leveling up.o	You can either claim or take a territory, and another EarthMage can take a territory from you if you cannot properly defend it.o	A player’s territories can be attacked even when they aren’t playing the game, so placing defenses for specific territories ahead of time using spells and monsters is essential to defending them.o	A territory can have up to four total monsters and spells protecting it at any time.•	Territory Health Points (THP) – Your THP total is the total health of a specific territory you are defending.o	You can have multiple THP totals; one for each territory you currently control. They can have different total amounts of THP based on varying factors.o	A THP number is based on the size of the territory you are defending, combined with your current stats based on level, etc. •	Magic Points (MP) – Your MP total is the amount of resources you have to summon a monster or cast a spell at any given moment.o	Players naturally recover MP as time progresses in the real world after using MP.o	Players have a max MP total at any given time. o	Leveling up will increase the total amount of MP a player has access to at any given time as well as increasing the baseline recovery rate of MP.o	Controlling territories will increase the total amount of MP a player has access too, as well as increasing the recovery rate of the MP.o	Stronger spells and monsters typically take more MP than weaker ones would.o	Using certain spells can actually increase the speed at which MP is recovered as a side effect for a limited amount of time.•	Defending Territory – You can defend an area of the real world by “claiming” it if it is left available and taken by no one or after you have taken it from another EarthMage or from a predetermined monster or spell. o	A player does not have to be presently playing the game to defend his/her territory. If the player has assigned monsters and/or spells to protect the territory then they will automatically kick in to defend the territory no matter what.o	If a territory has no defenses, then another EarthMage can walk right into that area in the real world and then claim it for himself without any further difficulty.o	A territory has a set AHP•	Monsters – There are an array of monsters in the world that can be used to protect or attack territories by EarthMages or can be encountered randomly by travelling in the real world. o	A random monster could be defending an unclaimed territory. In order to claim the territory, you would have to defeat the monster residing in it.o	Monsters have health points (HP). When the health points reach zero the monster is defeated.o	Monsters can range from weak to legendary in rank and players encounter creatures mostly based off their current level so they stand a chance of beating them (except for when a player chooses to attack another player and that player has a powerful monster).o	Monsters have health points (HP). When the HP reaches zero the monster is beaten. If a monster is defending a territory, the player must first beat the monster to deal the territory any damage.o	If a monster is summoned by the attacker in a combat session, then every turn after it is summoned the monster takes a small portion of MP from the attacking player to stay summoned but is half as expensive to summon initially compared to if it were summoned to defend a territory. o	Monsters will stay summoned as long as an attacker’s summoning session lasts or for as long as it has HP if it is placed in a territory as a defense.o	Defensive monsters can attack attacking monsters every turn and can defeat them.o	Monsters have to wait until the turn after they are summoned to attack.o	Monsters only have one attack and will use it each turn in a combat session when possible.•	Spells – There are defensive spells for defending territories and offensive spells for taking over territories.o	Spells cost different amounts of points based on potency of the spell.o	Some spells can only be used once discovered or unlocked by leveling up through a skill tree.o	Defensive Spells – Things like barriers, MP sap traps, etc. Designed to either weaken the opponent’s power when attacking your territory or to strengthen the fortitude of your territory against an opponents attack.•	Defensive spells have health points (HP).o	Offensive Spells – Spells used when attacking territories, monsters, and spells to damage the THP or HP of said things.•	I.E., a player could use the grand fireball offensive spell to deal X amount of damage to a monster another player is using to defend his territory.o	Passive Spells – Passively increases different player stats or decreases opposing player stats depending on the duration of the spell for a specified amount of time.•	I.E., a player might use a fortification potion to boost the HP of all monsters under his control for X amount of time.•	Leveling Up – When an EarthMage reaches a certain amount of experience points (EXP) he or she will level up and receive an increase in max MP and an increase in max THP for each of his or her territories, as well as receiving one skill point to use towards spell abilities or monster summoning.o	Leveling up will allow players to move along basic magic skill trees for defensive, passive, and offensive spells and players will be able to pick up a new spell each time they use a skill point to move along one of these skill trees.•	I.E., if there is a defensive skill tree and a player puts a skill point in it, then they may get the basic barrier spell to protect territories with.o	Leveling up will allow players to unlock new monsters with skill points, which they can use to defend and attack territories.•	I.E., a player may put a skill point towards unlocking a demon monster, which has high attack power but doesn’t have a high defense.•	Players will have to reach designated levels to unlock certain monster types.o	No max level assigned yet for EarthMages.•	Turns – The game is in real-time during all aspects of gameplay except the combat session. o	Combat Session – A battle can occur between a player and another player over a territory, or between a player and an uncontrolled monster or spell encountered in the world, sometimes over an unclaimed territory.•	Combat sessions are created once a player chooses to attack another EarthMages territory or if a player chooses to attack a monster or spell that he encounters with no owner, sometimes over an unclaimed territory.•	When in combat, a player’s MP doesn’t regenerate. •	Attacking players don’t have THP. They only have MP. •	Monsters and defensive spells have health points (HP).•	Unclaimed territories have no THP, and the attacking player just has to reduce the HP of the monster or spell guarding it to zero to win the session and take the territory.•	When the attacking player’s MP runs out, if he or she hasn’t successfully taken the territory or defeated the monster/spell they were aiming to defeat, they lose the combat session and are returned to the main game.•	If a player loses a combat session, then there is no EXP reward and the player will begin to regain their MP at the normal rate.•	If a player wins a combat session with just a random monster or spell, then they gain EXP based on the difficulty of the opponent and are automatically given a portion of their MP back as well, which then regains at the usual rate past that point. •	In order to deal any damage to the THP of a territory, the attacking player must first deal with all monsters and spells protecting it.•	When entering a combat session (see “Combat” gameplay mechanic below) the gameplay will become turn based so the attacking player and defending player or monster can make their moves. •	The attacking player moves first.•	If the attacking player is attacking a spell with no owner, then the player just attacks repeatedly until they have defeated it.•	If the defending player is not currently playing the game, then the spell(s), monster(s), or both that the player has will function normally but no more defenses can be added during combat.## Potential Game Design/Production Issues –•	Storage problems (where will we store all this data?).•	Designing areas of the world for players to take and defend.o	Will they be auto generated?o	Will we have to be limited and do it by hand?o	How big should each one be? How can we make it interesting with varying sizes without it being a huge hassle?•	Potential huge drain on cell phone, tablet batteries.o	How do we reduce the drain on a cell phone battery when this app is running so that players don’t have to worry about killing their phone when playing the game?•	How would we make this available on app markets? What will it cost us financially?•	How do we make money off this app? Recommended to make the game free and charge negligent amounts to purchase MP and new monsters/spells. Wanted to see what you think?•	How do we start building the app in a way that will not cause problems later on with making it usable on cell phones?•	Perhaps scope of the game is too large? Maybe no cooperative play to begin with and strip down total number of things players are capable of doing in game?